---
title: 'Commissioning Steps in detail'
date: '2017-02-16'
---

As an automation engineer, our commissioning steps starts like this. We first go to site and inspects the area. Then we perform the installation if needed for the default cards as well as the PLC. The electrical cabinet should be installed by the electricians already but we do need to make sure that they are installed properly and have the correct components. We might need to sort that out with the electrical engineers as well as the electricians if anything wrong.

Next step involves checking all the instruments or the valves or the equipments that has a electrical signals that goes through a installed correctly as well as are connected back to the to the panel. Sometimes they will be connected back to the panel but not connected to the IR cards. Which means that we need to either get electricians to connect it or connect it ourselves.

Once all the devices and plcs are connected, we can download the software into the PLC and check that communications are up. If everything is working, we should then be able to drive the different components, different devices from the PLC and start doing IO testing 
For digital devices that only has an on off signal. Usually it doesn't require any setup. It can be driven from the PLC however, devices that sends back an analogue signal such as the ones that sends a 4020 milliamps as well as the devices that requires us to send a analogue signals like the controllers to the pumps they require further setup before they can be used. We usually need to connect to these devices using our computer or other devices and then set up the correct range and the correct signal correct drive and then say that profile which will then be reused later on next start.

The next step is the aisle testing and here we have. We need to have two people doing this. One person will be next to the device and another person in front of the computer to drive the device through the screen. Make sure that is on and off at the correct position for instruments where we can fake the signal or try to use the real signal if possible and then verifier from the other end and then for the pumps we can drive the pants very slowly and verify on the other end as well 

The Next step, even though not part of the automation commissioning plan is to help other process engineers to flash the system which involves driving different valves and pumps to send water through different lines and the process. Engineers needs to make sure that every single part of the system is flushed and washed so that we automate the engineers will help them doing that through the control of the system.

The next part will involve actual usage of the software to test the CIP system as well as the other production system using water to check the process steps of each recipe Will load water as if it's product and run through the system as he as real production and make sure that our process steps are all configured correctly. This test should have been done pre-commissioning during the fat test to make sure that's correct and then we just simply verified that it is done correctly on site

Once the water test is done we will make sure everything's ready and to start performing a production, run long file using real product or repeat this quite a few times while coordinating with the customer. When the product is ready at the end I will have their QA engineers to verify it and whenever it's ready we should be able to hand it over to the operators and get them to start doing this themselves as well by trainings to them will be outside to her system for the first few weeks maybe and then once they are used to the system we we should be able to hand over the system to them and in between that will need to perform a handover test as well to make sure that the system is has met the criteria needed and or the operators are changed and everything is ready to go and as well as providing an acceptance test as well 
Is handed over. We are finally able to leave site for good.