---
title: 'Plant Handover'
date: '2016-12-20'
---

The plant handover process can be very delicate after the acceptance has passed and the operators are trained. Usually will take most of the engineers away from site if not all the engineers including myself. However site or the customers would like to have us engineers to be outside as long as possible to make sure that and they're operating smoothly because there are often issues not from the system itself but through the operators not being used to the system as well. So they might have been referring the system from their previous site and which being said there will be a lot of user errors when that happens. They want us to saw that out as soon as possible as far as I'm making potential changes to suit what they need 

When changes are required it can become difficult because we only support changes that involves issues . Changes to Simply help them for usability reasons as well as additions from our original contracts. Needed further payment before we can proceed in the form of a variation. This variation can take a while to be processed as well as some finalised before we can actually code the changes. Even though that the change can be very simple, but we are are required to wait until things are changed and proved before making that change. Sometimes these variation can be provided for free out of the Goodwill. However, most of the time it requires a complicated variation approval process 

Because they are often variation involved as well as additional support required by the customers, the handover staff can take a long time and then dragged on which means that me or other engineers will end up staying outside for a while. This happened on my first project, the NDA site even though I didn't drag for too long, but I didn't end up staying on site for a couple more weeks until I was able to come back and start on the new project.