---
title: 'Site Commissioning'
date: '2021-01-28'
---

Today had been quite an eventful day, I was assigned to assist with site commissioning for a medium size project called Oakley Beef, a freezer warehouse where they would store freshly processed and frozen beef products into pickable racks stored using our Dematic Multishuttle (DMS) system. The site is located near Brisbane, so we had to fly to Brisbane then drive to site from there. I went with two other colleagues who were quite experienced in terms of site software commissioning so I was glad to have them helping me guiding me along. Although I had been to site numerous time as a Controls Engineer, it would be slightly different to commissioning pure software instead. 


We arrived at site, signed in alongside with our project manager. We already did the online induction prior, but still had to go through the site induction. During the induction process, I was notified that a Q-Fever vaccine was though not enforced but highly recommended due to possible Q-Fever infection from frequent contact of processed meat in the warehouse. If the vaccine was not conducted, then a N95 mask would be required at all times. I did not have this vaccine, and the project manager initially asked me to look up the severity of this disease and let me decide whether to stay with mask on or go back to take the vaccine. I was still contemplating on what to do for sometime, but then he decided that it was not fair to push this decision on me and simply asked me to go back and take the vaccine before coming back to help with commissioning, which I was grateful about. I might have decided to stay, but since I was inexperienced in the meat industry, I don fully understand the severity of the disease, no matter how unlikely to catch it. 


So half way through the day I started driving back to the airport, and bought a ticket home. I arranged the Q-Fever vaccine through our office admins but it might take sometime until it was ready. Lesson learnt was that some preparations were needed depending on the type of products as well as the technology we employ. My example was also spread to our department, and our head of department then notified every single one of us to take necessary vaccine when there was even a remote chance of working in the industry, so my travel was not a total waste of time afterall. 