---
title: 'Creating Deployment'
date: '2021-03-04'
---

I started working on a new project called South Australia Health, where we would provide a fully automated warehouse on pharmaceutical products for SA Health. It would include Dematic Multishuttle technology, voice pick and route director dispatching. I will describe these technologies in another post, for this post, I would mention about how I assisted in early development from an integration point of view by creating an initial deployment of the project. 


In Dematic, the software deployment would contain a large amount of modules that could be installed as windows services. These modules were packaged in a way that they could all be installed independely, but would still require some common files to be configured and run correctly. Some installation scripts were generated in the root folder to copy and install all the modules automatically, as well as configuring the services to be ran automatically on startup. There were a few different type of deployments, one was made for production in customer server, one was made for testing locally, and another was made for testing in a remote test server. These deployments all share the same binary files built from the build machine, but they differs in some configurations such as IP Addresses, ports and development settings. We have a specific deployment configuration for each project which we use to generate all different type of deployments automatically. 


For SA Health, I was in charge of creating the deployment configuration from ground up. There was a project template that we could use, but I had to configure it for this project by comparing it with the functional specifications to decide which modules were required, and which configurations were best suited for. I also had to check the IP addresses of the customer server and our test server to configure each deployment appropriately. Finally, there were some new modules specifically created for this project which I had to help updating the deployment pipeline infrastructure to accommodate for it, so that the deployment configuration would pick up the new modules being built. 


Once the deployment configuration was setup, I also had to configure it in our build machine to automatically create it on a daily basis, so that developers and testers and grab the latest deployment every morning with all recent changes from both configurations and code changes applied to it. Urgent changes made during the day can also be applied by manually triggering the deployment as well. Sometimes the deployment would fail to build, after seeing these errors for enough times, it usually came down to two most common factors, one was that certain modules failed to build, thus causing the deployment that tried to grab it also failing; another was that certain configuration files were deleted while the modules were not deleted, causing deployment to not recognize the partial removal, repeating the deployment creation would fix the issue. Although it took sometime to maintain the deployment, it felt rewarding to be in full control of such a crucial development pipeline. 