---
title: 'Remote Commissioning'
date: '2021-09-06'
---

So Covid had been going on for a while now, most companies were heavily affected by it, but Dematic actually had been doing ok, as most of our work can be done working from home, and due to the supply chain breaking down, demand for bigger Warehouses doubled, resulting in even more work available to us. The only thing that did affect us was commissioning on site became much more difficult, so we utilized contractors and remote engineers as much as possible, as well as training operators early, so they can help us when travelling was prohibited. 


For SA Health Project, when our internal testings were complete and the software was ready to be commissioned on site, several of us including myself applied for exemptions to the govern to travel, but all were denied as our work was labelled non-essential. So we had to come up with another plan. We were instead given remote access to the server early on, and completed most of the installations and setup remotely. When it was time to commission, I wrote up a detailed testing plan along with testing data supplied to site, and communicated with a site contact to commission together remotely instead. We also trained an operator early on to help us commission as well as hoping that he would later teach the other operators in voice pick. 


During the remote commissioning phase, I would be up at 6 every day, download all the required testing data on the server, communicate with the other engineer on site to let him commission one part of the plant, then call up the operator and testing through functionalities while training him at the same time. Progress was slower than usual as I could not spot things that I would normally spot on site, and the operator was always eager to leave right on time at 4. Luckily we did not encounter many issues on site, as we thoroughly tested the software inhouse already, and we managed to complete the commissioning work on time with a few weekends worth of work. Even though I was at the comfort of my home working remotely, it was still gruesome work, on the phone 4-6 hours a day, commissioning all morning and early afternoon, and often had to fix some mapping and ruling issues on RouteDirector and Voice Maps. It was a huge relief being able to finish it on time, and allowing site to slowly ramp up to production with the experienced operator leading the charge. 