---
title: 'LVMH Development'
date: '2024-08-05'
---

We recently started ramping up development for an upcoming project called LVMH, featuring a huge three floor warehouse with two large sets of Dematic Multishuttle Systems, a long series of Pick-to-light systems and multiple Value Added Service systems post picking. Despite the complexity of the system, we were only given three months worth of software development time before site commissioning starts, which means time was of essense. At this stage, there was very little to test, so I contributed as much as I could to the software development for the team to progress further as a whole. 


My usual initial job was configuring the project deployment configuration. We had a default template for the deployment config, it was usually just a matter of aligning the template with the project requirement. However due to the complexity of this project, a few different modules were developed and added to the build. I had to update our CI pipeline to build these modules as well as add them to the deploy config to be included in the project deployment. Once they were configured, code and config checked in would be automatically included in our daily automatic build for the developers to use and test. 


The next few tasks were to generate the mapping files for Pick-To-Light (PTL) system and Goods-To-Person (GTP) system. For PTL, we had a colleague who usually did the map generation, but he was busy commissioning another project, so I tracked down the script he wrote in perl and communicated thoroughly with him to understand how it worked. The perl syntax was a little harder to read compare to Ruby or Python that I was familiar with, thankfully I did not need to change the script much, just needed to know what to place in the input file to generate the intermediate xml maps, then convert it to a sql script using a different tool. The actual map generation steps was not too hard to complete, but the documentation provided by the customer was a little vague, and it proved difficult to communicate with them to verify the details of the map. We had to redo the mapping a few times after later emails from the customers clarifying some differences in expectation. 


The final task was to collaborate with the Transport module developer and work on the RouteDirector mapping and routing rules. This task was the most complex one, as RouteDirector was usually designed to handle one distinct and whole system, but for this project, it needed to be broken up into several smaller systems, and handing over control to a different system in between the smaller systems. It took a long time to draw up the individual system map in a visio file, and took longer the convert the drawings into actual map database scripts. However, what was the most time consuming was to write up the routing rules for each system as well as for their interconnection points, as the RouteDirector itself was not aware of other transport systems, some hacks needed to be made for it to decide what to do with each container at the end of each system. After a few months of hard work, the transport systems were finally reached a working state that could be tested. 