---
title: 'LVMH Interface Test'
date: '2024-10-04'
---

As the development of LVMH project intensified, some part of the projects were finally ready to be tested. The initial tests were done against the interfaces as usual, where I would create messages pretending to be Warehouse Management System (WMS), sending messages such as stock information, decant and pick orders. Normally this feature would be straight forward and would not have many issues, however for LVMH, this was not the case. 


The main complexity came from three parts, one was that each decant and pick order now included a lot more custom fields not previously used, these fields all needed their new tables in the database, and required to be monitored and updated so they could potentially uploaded back to WMS in other messages. Another was that the client WMS had a lot of limitations in the ways it processed information, which required a lot of duplication of messages as well as very specific formatting of these messages, this meant that a lot of exception cases often produced slightly incorrect formatted messages, which would fail to be processed by WMS correctly. The last part was simply due to the complexity of the overall system it was not possibly to properly produce many messages using the normal channels as they were still in development, I had to use other tools to generate the most of the messages to test. 


However, despite the complexity of the system, the inhouse tests were still quite smooth, issues were raised and resolved, missing features marked and developed. The most difficult part came later with Customer Remote Interface Test. Instead of either sending us messages to our server to test like previous project, the customer had prepared a specific test server for us to install an early version of Warehouse Control System (WCS) with the sole purpose of performing interface test with WMS. Once it was setup, the customer would manually send us messages in a chat group, and expecting us to download those messages and send back the response in the chat group since WMS could not send messages just yet. This lasted several weeks, which was very time consuming to test, as I had to copy over the long messages to the server, and use additional tools to download locally to test each message, and manually process them using other tools. 


Once the WMS was finally ready, the customer would send the messages automatically from it, but would ask us to process them once received. Since the rest of our system was not ready, I had to manually process each message which once again was very time consuming. There were often issues found in either WMS or WCS side due to certain edge cases, which we were asked to solve quickly so it could be retested. This stage ended up lasting several months, taking majority of my time to perform, severely impacting my ability to conduct other tests. The instability of the customer server also caused further delays, due to both the long distance of the location of the server as well as the additional security measures the customer added to the access of their server. After months of efforts performing remote interface tests, it was finally finished and customer content with the result, however, I was left very little time to actually finish the in house functional tests, which means more pressure to finish them before commissioning starts. 